---
layout: post
title:  "SCMS 2023 Abstract"
---

**Tile of Paper**
Will They or Won’t They: Understanding Queerbaiting and Authorial Intent in Sherlock and Hannibal

**Abstract**
The bridge between content creators and content consumers is shorter than ever before. With social media, content consumers can now directly interact with the creators, cast, and crew of a production. This new two-way communication phenomenon needs to be explored. Within the past two years alone, fan campaigns on social media have sparked media companies to deliver what the fans want—the CGI rework of Sonic the Hedgehog (2020) and Zack Snyder’s Justice League (2021). These are not just simple, little changes to one element of a production; these changes cost millions of dollars. Now, when enough fans demand change, some media companies take that financial risk and listen directly to the fans.

This paper seeks to understand the phenomenon of queerbaiting surrounding the television shows Sherlock (2010-2017) and Hannibal (2013-2015) by analyzing interactions of content consumers with queer subtext, and how those interactions shaped authorial intent for BBC’s Sherlock and NBC’s Hannibal. Fans of Sherlock and Hannibal interpreted queer subtext that started in the first seasons of those television shows and pushed for those queer relationships to happen in future seasons. Hannibal Lector and Will Graham in Hannibal became romantically involved by the end of the show while Sherlock Holmes and John Watson in Sherlock did not. Studies have been done on the television shows separately. but Sherlock and Hannibal have never been analyzed together with text, subtext, and authorial intent all highlighted together—and doing so might provide important insight on this growing and quickening two-way communication between content consumers and content creators. By analyzing meta posts on Twitter and Tumblr, and paratexts, like interviews with the showrunners, this paper will juxtapose two points in history where fan campaigns against queerbaiting had the ability to influence authorial intent. Finally, this paper will propose a new encoding/decoding model (Hall, 1980), combining these concepts with the hope to not only demonstrate the cases of Sherlock and Hannibal, but to understand future cases of fan campaigns, changes to authorial intent, and media companies’ financial decisions involving fans as well. 
