---
layout: post
title: "Intro Abstract"
---

### Remediation of Familial Trauma in Marvel Fan Fiction ### 

Fanfiction is defined as taking ideas from an existing intellectual property and creating new stories (Jenkins, 1992). Authors can choose how much or how little of the original source text they include in the fanfiction (Jenkins, 1992). This remediation of the source text can fall under three categories: preferred meaning, negotiated meaning, and oppositional meaning (Bolter, 2001; Hall, 1980). This study seeks to understand how fanfiction authors and readers develop negotiated and oppositional meanings of a source text through fanfiction. This study will utilize fanfiction based off the Marvel Cinematic Universe’s version of Peter Parker and his relationship with Tony Stark. In the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Peter Parker and Tony Stark have minimal shared screen time and interactions across three films. However, in 2020, the platonic relationship tag “Peter Parker & Tony Stark” on Archive of Our Own ranked number 9 in greatest gain in total fanworks posted with 5,729 new fanworks. And the romantic relationship tag “Peter Parker/Tony Stark” on Archive of Our Own ranked number 67 in greatest gain in total fanworks with 2,051 new fanworks in 2020. This remediation of the Marvel Cinematic Universe and the divergence in negotiated and oppositional meaning is a phenomenon that needs to be studied. Through close reading methodology, this study will examine 10 fanworks based off kudos from Archive of Our Own with the tags “Peter Parker & Tony Stark” and “Peter Parker/Tony Stark.” This study will provide valuable insight to how fanfiction writers and readers develop negotiated and oppositional meanings of a source text. This study will be submitted to Transformative Works and Cultures. 
